src/content/portfolio/package-query.md, before:

---
published: true
title: Package Query Experiment
description: A homework assignment  for CS 4964 (Manage Data for & with ML) that replicates part of Brucato et al.'s SketchRefine technique for package queries.
date: 2025-03-01
category: Project
skills: [Python, PuLP, ILP]
---

A homework assignment for CS 6964 (Neuro-Symbolic Modeling) that replicates part of Brucato et al.'s SketchRefine technique for package queries. Package queries are queries that return a collection of tuples that meet certain global conditions. However, they are difficult to implement because the conditions apply to the entire set of results, not just individual tuples. I experimented with three different executor strategies for evaluating package queries over an ingredient dataset. I implemented brute-force, ILP, and a simplified SketchRefine approach, formulating the latter two as integer linear programs using PuLP. The SketchRefine method achieved significantly faster runtimes, outperforming brute-force and achieving 75.9% faster execution compared to the ILP solution.

Commit message:

Updated project information, improved markdown rendering, added min-height to portfolio cards

src/content/portfolio/package-query.md, after:

---
published: true
title: Package Query Experiment
description: Implementation and comparison of multiple approaches for efficient package query execution, including an adaptation of the SketchRefine technique.
date: 2025-03-01
category: Project
skills: [Python, HuggingFace, Prover9]
---

## Overview

This coursework project for CS 6964 (Neuro-Symbolic Modeling) explores and implements various strategies for efficient package query execution, with a focus on optimizing query performance through innovative approaches. The project involved replicating and extending Brucato et al.'s SketchRefine technique for package queries, implementing multiple execution strategies, and comparing their performance on test data. The work focused on solving the complex problem of evaluating queries that require global conditions across result sets.

## Key Achievements

- Implemented three distinct query execution strategies
- Achieved 75.9% faster execution with SketchRefine approach
- Successfully formulated complex queries as integer linear programs (ILPs)
- Demonstrated significant performance improvements over brute-force methods

## Technical Implementation

- Developed a brute-force package query executor for baseline comparison
- Implemented an ILP-based query strategy using PuLP
- Adapted and simplified the SketchRefine technique for improved performance
